# Determining the reproductive maturation of Pacific herring in Sitka Sound Alaska using scale measurements	
## NPRB Project 1708 

The maturity exploration in this study was divided into three objectives, with an additional fourth objective added during the study period.  

Objective one was to assess whether mature Sitka Sound herring grow less than immature herring during the summer before spawning. Maturity assessment was based on histology. Scale measurements of immature and mature individuals were compared. The alternative hypothesis is that within an age, mature herring will have smaller mean outer-ring scale growth than immature herring. To accomplish this objective, Pacific herring were collected onboard a commercial fishing vessel during the fall 2017 Sitka Sound test fishery using a commercial purse seine. Fish standard lengths and weights were measured, gonads tissues were sampled for histology (sex and maturity stage), and scales were collected for ageing and measuring of annuli. Generalized linear models with binomial maturity data were fit to the data and the relative importance of the explanatory variables (outer incremental measurement, age as a factor, interaction term) were assessed in terms of significance.

Objective two was to create an empirical maturity-at-age curve for the Sitka Sound herring population using a catalogued scale database from years 1983–2016. Following the methods of Barros and Holst (1995), archived herring scales from fully-mature age classes of fish sampled on spawning grounds will be examined to determine the age at which they matured based on scale growth increments. The potential benefits of estimating maturity from archived scales include low cost, low sample bias, and the possibility of retrospective analysis of changes in maturity over time. Although objective one did not corroborate the results seen in Atlantic herring, and therefore we were not able to accomplish objective two, we were still able to have the Mark, Tag, and Age (MTA) laboratory in Juneau Alaska measure scales collected from spring cast net samples from 2001–2018 (about 10,000 scales) as these scales were housed in the Alaska Department of Fish and Game (ADF&G) catalogued database. Therefore, part of the project funds were used for data recovery of historical Pacific herring scales. This will allow future studies of growth using scale measurements.

Objective three was to assess the utility of macroscopic analysis and gonadosomatic indexing (GSI) for estimating maturity, in comparison to histological analysis, for Sitka Sound herring captured during the fall. The two-sided alternative hypothesis was that macroscopic analysis and gonadosomatic indexing provide different estimates of maturity than histology for Sitka Sound herring in the fall. In case future studies would be useful to distinguish differences in growth due to maturity or differential growth among cohorts at a lower cost (Hay and McCarter 1999), we evaluated whether macroscopic or GSI methods can be effectively used in place of histologic methods (commonly accepted as the “gold standard” for determining maturity (West 1990)) to distinguish between immature and maturing Sitka Sound herring in the fall. Samples of herring were collected onboard a commercial fishing vessel during the fall 2017 Sitka Sound test fishery using a commercial purse seine. Herring were measured for standard length and weighed, and gonads were removed, weighed, and macroscopically staged for maturity based on the modified Hjort scale (Hay and Outram 1981; Hay 1985) and based on GSI. As a GSI cut-off has not been established for Southeast Alaska herring stocks in the fall, based on studies of British Columbia Pacific herring, a female fish was determined mature if gonad weights exceeded 5% of total body weight (Hay and McCarter 1999). In addition, to validate (or invalidate) macroscopic and GSI analysis, gonad tissue was sampled for histological analysis of sex and maturity stage. To determine the error between macroscopic staging, based on the modified Hjort scale, or GSI, and histological maturity staging, stage-specific error, total stage-specific error, and Cohen’s (1960, 1968) weighted coefficient of agreement (kappa ()) were calculated.

An additional fourth objective was added during the study time period. We conducted a sub-study to determine if scales plucked from different regions on a fish had proportional growth for scales plucked from different regions of the fish, using scales from male and female Pacific herring samples jigged from Saint John Baptist Bay, Alaska, in 2018. The ADF&G MTA lab has historically plucked from different regions of the fish over time for aging (historical ADF&G database) and scales can differ in absolute size and shape across regions of the fish. However, for maturity estimation, growth measurements are needed. To utilize the scales in the database for our second objective, (i.e., to examine archived herring scales from male and female Pacific herring in the historical ADF&G database to determine the age at which they matured based on scale growth increments) we needed to determine if scales plucked from “non-preferred” regions of the fish’s body have similar proportional growth compared to scales plucked from “preferred” regions of a fish’s body.
